NMS-14615: Quick Start: Import inventory (#5244)
OpenNMS/opennms: docs/modules/operation/pages/quick-start/inventory.adoc

[[provision-getting-started]]
= Step 3: Provision Inventory

> {page-component-title} installs with a base configuration that automatically begins service-level monitoring and reporting as soon as you identify and catalog (provision) the managed entities (nodes, IP interfaces, SNMP interfaces, and services) you want to monitor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{page-component-title} installs with a base configuration that automatically begins service-level monitoring and reporting as soon as you identify and catalog (provision) the managed entities (nodes, IP interfaces, SNMP interfaces, and services) that you want to monitor.
```

{page-component-title} has three methods of provisioning:

* xref:deep-dive/provisioning/auto-discovery.adoc[] (automatically add nodes).
* xref:deep-dive/provisioning/directed-discovery.adoc[] (manually add nodes).
* xref:development:rest/rest-api.adoc#rest-api[Asset import] through the RestAPI.

Use auto discovery if you do not have a "source of truth" for your network inventory.
Auto discovery can become that source.

> Be aware that auto discovery can include entities you do not want to monitor, if not properly configured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Be aware that auto discovery can include entities you do not want to monitor if it is not properly configured.
```

Directed discovery is effective if you know your inventory, particularly with smaller networks (for example, 100–200 nodes).
It is also useful for areas of your network that you cannot auto discover.

Regardless of the method, provisioning is an iterative process.
You will need to fine-tune your results to exclude or add to what you monitor.

> This quick start presents a very basic example of auto discovery of nodes, through SNMP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This Quick Start guide presents a very basic example of auto discovery of nodes, through SNMP.
```

> Beyond this quick start, you can complete additional tasks to provision your system:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Beyond this guide, you can complete additional tasks to provision your system:
```

* Use plugins to integrate with external systems.
* Specify more complex entity detection with OpenNMS detectors (ActiveMQ, DNS, FTP, JDBC, TCP, and so on).
* Create policies to manage provisioning behavior.

> Refer to xref:operation:deep-dive/provisioning/introduction.adoc[Provisioning] in the deep-dive section for details about these and other provisioning-related tasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to xref:operation:deep-dive/provisioning/introduction.adoc[Provisioning] in the Deep Dive section for details about these and other provisioning-related tasks.
```

[[provision-snmp-configuration]]
== Configure SNMP for provisioning

> To collect data through SNMP or monitor the availability of SNMP services on a node, you need to configure SNMP for provisioning before using auto or directed discovery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To collect data through SNMP or monitor the availability of SNMP services on a node, you need to configure SNMP for provisioning.
```

This ensures that {page-component-title} can immediately scan newly discovered devices for entities.

Proper SNMP configuration lets {page-component-title} understand network and node topology and automatically enables performance data collection.
{page-component-title} updates network topology as it provisions nodes.

> This quick start procedure illustrates a very basic SNMP configuration using the default parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This procedure illustrates a very basic SNMP configuration using the default parameters.
```

You can customize these values for your own network needs.

> . In the web UI, click the gear icon in the top right.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the web UI, click the *Gear* symbol in the top-right of the screen.
```

> . In the *Provisioning* area, choose *Configure SNMP Community Names by IP Address*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Choose menu:Provisioning[Configure SNMP Community Names by IP Address].
```

> . Specify an IP address range in the *First IP Address* and *Last IP Address* fields and accept the default values for the other fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Under General Parameters, specify an IP range using the *First IP Address* and *Last IP Address* boxes, and accept the default values for the other fields.
```

+
This screen sets up SNMP within {page-component-title} for agents listening on IP addresses 10.1.1.1 through 10.254.254.254.

.Configure SNMP community names
image::provisioning/SNMP_Config.png[SNMP-configuration, 600]

These settings are optimized into the `snmp-config.xml` file.

For an example of the resulting XML configuration, see xref:operation:deep-dive/provisioning/xml-samples.adoc#SNMP-community-xml[Configure SNMP community names].

[[requisition-create]]
== Create a requisition

A requisition is a set of nodes (networked devices) to import into {page-component-title} for monitoring and management.

Organizing nodes with a similar network monitoring profile into a requisition (for example, routers or switches), lets you assign the same services, detectors, and policies for network monitoring behavior.

A requisition includes a default foreign source definition that serves as a template to define the services to detect on (DNS, FTP, ICMP, and so on), the scan interval for discovery, and the policies to use when provisioning.

While you can perform discovery without a requisition and edit it later, we recommend that you create a requisition before discovery.

> You can iteratively build a requisition and later actually import the requisition's nodes into {page-component-title} to process all add, changes, and deletes at once.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can iteratively build a requisition and import the requisition's nodes into {page-component-title} later.
Doing this will process all additions, changes, and deletions at once.
```

This procedure describes how to create an empty requisition using the default foreign source definition.
See the links at the end of the procedure for additional information on customizing a requisition.

To create a requisition, follow these steps:

> . In the web UI, click the gear icon in the top right.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the web UI, click the *Gear* symbol in the top-right of the screen.
```

> . In the *Provisioning* area, choose *Manage Provisioning Requisitions*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Choose menu:Provisioning[Manage Provisioning Requisitions].
```

. Click *Add Requisition*, type a name, and click *OK*.

NOTE: The requisition remains red until you synchronize it with the database.
Synchronize after you configure discovery.

image::provisioning/red_requisition.png[]

Once created, you can add nodes to the requisition.

IMPORTANT: The requisition editor in the OpenNMS web UI is designed for small-scale use.
Do not attempt to use this interface to edit requisitions containing more than a few dozen nodes.
It is not designed for that use case and will fail.

Additional configuration options for requisitions:

> * xref:deep-dive/provisioning/directed-discovery.adoc#directed-discovery[Manually specify nodes to add to a requisition]
> * xref:deep-dive/provisioning/auto-discovery.adoc#auto-discovery[Automatically discover nodes to add to a requisition]
> * Customize a requisition with xref:reference:provisioning/detectors.adoc#ref-detectors[detectors] and xref:deep-dive/provisioning/policies.adoc#policies[policies]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* xref:deep-dive/provisioning/directed-discovery.adoc#directed-discovery[Manually specify nodes to add to a requisition].
* xref:deep-dive/provisioning/auto-discovery.adoc#auto-discovery[Automatically discover nodes to add to a requisition].
* Customize a requisition with xref:reference:provisioning/detectors.adoc#ref-detectors[detectors] and xref:deep-dive/provisioning/policies.adoc#policies[policies].
```

[[configure-discovery]]

> == Configure discovery

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Configure discovery

```

> For this quick start, we assume that you do not have a list of nodes to start from.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this Quick Start guide, we assume that you do not have a list of nodes to start from.
```

The procedure uses the default general settings for parameters like timeouts and retries.
You can customize these for your own needs.

To configure discovery, follow these steps:

> . In the web UI, click the gear icon in the top right.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the web UI, click the *Gear* symbol in the top-right of the screen.
```

> . In the *Provisioning* area, choose *Configure Discovery*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Choose menu:Provisioning[Configure Discovery].
```

. In the *General Settings* area, select the requisition you just created from the *Requisition* list.

> .. (optional) Change the default values, if desired.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** (Optional) Change the default values.
```

> . Click *Save and Restart Discovery*.

Author: ```suggestion
. Click *Save and Restart Discovery*, in the top-left of the screen.
```

> . Go to *Manage Provisioning Requsitions* and click the *Synchronize the Requisition* icon, choose a scan option, and click *Synchronize*.

Reviewer: Are these steps up to date? I couldn't find the Save and Restart Discovery button.

Author: Yes, it's in the top-left. Good user testing, though, so I'll add that in, since it's obviously not obvious. :-)

> You can view imported nodes under *Info > Nodes*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can view imported nodes under menu:Info[Nodes] at the top of the screen.
```

[[provision-getting-started]]
= Step 3: Provision Inventory

{page-component-title} installs with a base configuration that automatically begins service-level monitoring and reporting as soon as you identify and catalog (provision) the managed entities (nodes, IP interfaces, SNMP interfaces, and services) that you want to monitor.

{page-component-title} has three methods of provisioning:

* xref:deep-dive/provisioning/auto-discovery.adoc[] (automatically add nodes).
* xref:deep-dive/provisioning/directed-discovery.adoc[] (manually add nodes).
* xref:development:rest/rest-api.adoc#rest-api[Asset import] through the RestAPI.

Use auto discovery if you do not have a "source of truth" for your network inventory.
Auto discovery can become that source.
Be aware that auto discovery can include entities you do not want to monitor if it is not properly configured.

> Directed discovery is effective if you know your inventory, particularly with smaller networks (for example, 100–200 nodes).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Directed discovery is effective if you know your inventory, particularly if you have a smaller network (for example, 100–200 nodes).
```

Refer to xref:operation:deep-dive/provisioning/introduction.adoc[Provisioning] in the Deep Dive section for details about these and other provisioning-related tasks.

[[provision-snmp-configuration]]
== Configure SNMP for provisioning

To collect data through SNMP or monitor the availability of SNMP services on a node, you need to configure SNMP for provisioning.
This ensures that {page-component-title} can immediately scan newly discovered devices for entities.

Proper SNMP configuration lets {page-component-title} understand network and node topology and automatically enables performance data collection.
{page-component-title} updates network topology as it provisions nodes.

This procedure illustrates a very basic SNMP configuration using the default parameters.
You can customize these values for your own network needs.

. In the web UI, click the *Gear* symbol in the top-right of the screen.
. Choose menu:Provisioning[Configure SNMP Community Names by IP Address].
. Under General Parameters, specify an IP range using the *First IP Address* and *Last IP Address* boxes, and accept the default values for the other fields.
. Click *Save Config*.
+

> This screen sets up SNMP within {page-component-title} for agents listening on IP addresses 10.1.1.1 through 10.254.254.254.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This screen sets up SNMP within {page-component-title} for agents listening on IP addresses `10.1.1.1` through `10.254.254.254`.
```

.Configure SNMP community names
image::provisioning/SNMP_Config.png[SNMP-configuration, 600]

These settings are optimized into the `snmp-config.xml` file.

> For an example of the resulting XML configuration, see xref:operation:deep-dive/provisioning/xml-samples.adoc#SNMP-community-xml[Configure SNMP community names].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For an example of the resulting XML configuration, see xref:operation:deep-dive/provisioning/xml-samples.adoc#SNMP-community-xml[Configure SNMP community names] in the Deep Dive section.
```

[[requisition-create]]
== Create a requisition

A requisition is a set of nodes (networked devices) to import into {page-component-title} for monitoring and management.

> Organizing nodes with a similar network monitoring profile into a requisition (for example, routers or switches), lets you assign the same services, detectors, and policies for network monitoring behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Organizing nodes with a similar network monitoring profile into a requisition (for example, routers or switches) lets you assign the same services, detectors, and policies for network monitoring behavior.
```

Do not attempt to use this interface to edit requisitions containing more than a few dozen nodes.
It is not designed for that use case and will fail.

Additional configuration options for requisitions:

* xref:deep-dive/provisioning/directed-discovery.adoc#directed-discovery[Manually specify nodes to add to a requisition].
* xref:deep-dive/provisioning/auto-discovery.adoc#auto-discovery[Automatically discover nodes to add to a requisition].
* Customize a requisition with xref:reference:provisioning/detectors.adoc#ref-detectors[detectors] and xref:deep-dive/provisioning/policies.adoc#policies[policies].

[[configure-discovery]]
== Configure discovery

For this Quick Start guide, we assume that you do not have a list of nodes to start from.
The procedure uses the default general settings for parameters like timeouts and retries.
You can customize these for your own needs.

To configure discovery, follow these steps:

. In the web UI, click the *Gear* symbol in the top-right of the screen.
. Choose menu:Provisioning[Configure Discovery].
. In the *General Settings* area, select the requisition you just created from the *Requisition* list.
** (Optional) Change the default values.

> . Click *Save and Restart Discovery*, in the top-left of the screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *Save and Restart Discovery* in the top-left of the screen.
```

> . Go to *Manage Provisioning Requsitions* and click the *Synchronize the Requisition* icon, choose a scan option, and click *Synchronize*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Return to *Manage Provisioning Requisitions* and click *Synchronize the Requisition*.
. Choose a scan option and click *Synchronize*.
```

You can view imported nodes under menu:Info[Nodes] at the top of the screen.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
